THE BUILDO   SITE MANIFESTO 2025-2030
In odu on
Founded in 2004, BUILDOFFSITE’s mission was to promote, support and increase the construc
tion industrialisation via the adoption of offsite methodologies and pre-manufactured solutions 
across the built environment. We brought the industry together, provided impartial advice and 
promoted innovative and collaborative ways of working across our diverse network including 
professional bodies, universities, government agencies and the wider industry sector.
BUILDOFFSITE has played its part in encouraging greater adoption and ‘normalising’ industrial, 
offsite, and Modern Methods of Construction (MMC). However, work still needs to be done to 
enable greater project delivery at scale, and ensure barriers are overcome, to achieve this goal 
for the benefit of our members, the industry and society as a whole.
Working with our membership, wider network and key industry stakeholders, and partners, we will 
continue to foster positive transformation and impact through collaboration.
This vision can only be delivered through clear direction and objectives in all activity we under
take; both internally and with, and on behalf of, our members and collaborators.
To achieve this, we are publishing a new 5-year Manifesto, with priority asks for Government and 
setting out new pledges (Pillars) for breaking down more barriers and delivering change. These 
objectives will drive all activity we undertake and will be reviewed by members on an annual 
basis.
BUILDOFFSITE will continue to identify misconceptions and other barriers to the increased 
adoption of offsite. Our goal is to work with members and key industry stakeholders to ensure 
these barriers are overcome, good practice solutions identified, and offsite construction 
normalised.
Priori ollabora ve frameworks and partnerships at the heart of deploying perfor
Asks for 
Government 
01
DRIVING DEMAND AT S ALE
Measures that drive demand for o site 
at sale, leading to in reased pipeline 
visibili
Fluctuating demand results in low overhead recovery, lack 
of investment in production capacity and insufficient 
throughput for factories. Appropriate measures will unlock 
investment, access to (public sector) land, change 
behaviours, deliver economies of scale, and bring more 
confidence in robustness of supply.  More emphasis of the 
presumption in favour of MMC and offsite is needed with 
appropriate financial incentives recognising the social value 
resulting from local employment aiming to increase volume 
by around 10% year on year and create a dynamic market. 
There is however a lack of knowledge about the art of the 
possible.  An industry campaign is needed to help design
ers and the wider project team to develop their understand
ing of the capabilities and characteristics related to existing 
MMC categories, fabrication types, systems, and products.
mane spe ifiaons 
Driven by BUILDOFFSITE’s guidance, various forms of partnerships, frameworks, contracts and behaviours could be 
changed to encourage immediate access to frameworks and long-term contracts. This could create more impactful 
collaboration on improving performance and capacity, refining procurement and contracting models based on an 
outcome-based approach focused on value, performance and sustainability. 
EMBEDDING SUSTAINBILITY AND
DRIVING NET ZERO ARBON
02 Fiscal financial incentives for carbon reduction tailored to offsite methods are critical for improving carbon value, 
especially for those in the industry working towards PAS 2080 accreditation. These will support the offsite sector in 
delivering measurable carbon savings in line with the UK’s net-zero ambitions.
Inen ves for Sustainable Building 
Scaling up low carbon innovations will make a significant impact on driving net zero carbon. This will probably 
require some flexibility in repayment scheduling but would enable businesses to develop without having to dilute 
their ownership structure and potential impact on cash flow.
More funding for saling-up (in luding low arbon innovaons)
DELIVERING DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION
03
Fiscal credits or innovation funding would support digital integration and improve productivity within offsite businesses. This will help bridge technology gaps and accelerate the 
adoption of advanced manufacturing technologies, driving productivity. Further digital transformation could be achieved by industry wide adoption of the ‘Digital kit-of-Parts’ to enable 
significant progress in delivering more technologically integrated homes in the low-rise housing sector.
Funding and poli y support for further tehnologi al integraon
04
IN ENTIVISING QUALITY ASSURAN E AND SETTING ROBUST STANDARDS
Inen ves for Sustainable Building Soluons
Uncertainty about quality and warranties, in particular in relation to fire safety performance, reinforces the need for 
evidence-based assessments. BUILDOFFSITE advocates uniform accreditation standards that allow manufacturers and 
other suppliers to meet consistent quality and compliance expectations. Build Offsite Property Assurance Scheme 
(BOPAS) was set up in 2013 by BUILDOFFSITE. It is one of the accreditation schemes available in the housing market to 
address concerns about lack of assurance. Seeking accreditation should be incentivised. 
Updates of more robust standards 
The use of technology agnostic, performance specifications rather than prescriptive specifications and the creation and 
use of more standardised interfaces will enable the industry to develop inter-operable modules and other products. This 
could lead to significant efficiency gains and boost industry confidence. Some of this is being driven by PAS 8700 and the 
BSI committee CB/301, which is supported by BOS and is mirroring the ISO committee that is currently updating ISO 
The onnued development of open “pla orm” based standardisaon
This will reduce unnecessary variety. Developing and using standardisation for inter-operability in procurement specifica
tions and order pipeline forecasts would allow analysts to identify markets which are worth investing in for product and 
manufacturing development.
Further roll out of standardisaon a ross se tors
Kitchens and bathrooms are often standardised. Consider and encourage the use of more standardised specifications 
and/or designs to enable manufacturers to progress down the cost learning curve through competition in the knowledge 
that there will be opportunities to deliver multiple similar products for all types of projects and developments. 
05
VALUE BASED PROUREMENT 
A holis , value-based, approah 
The whole life cost and carbon performance of buildings 
should be considered holistically, rather than having separate 
procurement models for construction and operations. Oppor
tunities for 100 years or indefinite life (not just 2 x 30-year 
mortgage spans) need to be taken and warranted by assur
ance schemes. As construction materials become scarce, 
more consideration should be given to retrofit, refurbishment, 
low carbon materials and reuse of materials.  Utilising offsite 
and MMC with imagination and innovation is an ideal match 
for retrofitting and refurbishment projects. 
Building Regulaons revisions
This would help to drive standardisation and reduce develop
ment costs for SMEs. The Government should legislate for 
embodied carbon to be calculated as part of the process. 
Lessons could also be learned from the approach used by the 
Singapore Building Construction Authority, which implements a 
”type” approval process for high rise volumetric modular 
residential developments. Construction cannot commence until 
type approval is confirmed. 
Development of planning tools to help 
assess and enourage the adopon of 
o site ons u on 
This will reduce unnecessary variety. Developing and using 
standardisation for inter-operability in procurement specifica
tions and order pipeline forecasts would allow analysts to 
identify markets which are worth investing in for product and 
manufacturing development.
06
DEVELOPING WORKFOR E INITIATIVE 
WITH O ISTE SPE IFI TRAINING
Professional skills development 
and aining
There is a chronic lack of skills in our sector. A govern
ment-backed workforce development initiative that includes 
offsite-specific training programmes could ensure a 
future-ready workforce. This could include partnerships with 
educational institutions to foster skills in modular design and 
prefabrication techniques. DfMA is the enabler of MMC and 
offsite, so these institutions need to provide teachers and 
students with additional training, develop professional 
qualifications for multi-skilled practitioners managing offsite 
manufacturing and onsite processes as well as ensure CPD 
programmes are put in place. The Government also needs to 
encourage the building site to become a production assem
bly plant rather than a construction site.
Appointment and aining of 
MM advisers
Buildoffsite supports the recommendation that an MMC 
assessment is carried out for every major project in the 
manner set out in the government’s MMC Guidance Note 
(September 2022).  The MMC advisor with intimate knowl
edge of offsite and pre-manufacturing benefits and challeng
es who can provide impartial advice.
THE FOUR PILLARS
Influene
01
Demons ate evidene of 
good pra
e
02
Build insight and knowledge
03
ollaborate for Impa t
04
BUILDOFFSITE will continue to inform and influence policy. Through contributing to standards development, delivering evidence-based guidance, and strengthening relationships 
with policy makers, we pledge to help shape and inform the current and future conversations, and decisions around offsite construction and the built environment. We will strategical
ly engage members in this influencing activity for the benefit of the wider network.
BUILDOFFSITE will specifically engage with the UK Government and Parliament on behalf of, and with our members, to ensure the required level of support is available for the 
increased adoption and growth of offsite and pre-manufactured solutions at scale. The presumption in favour of offsite, and the commitments made by various government depart
ments to increase the use of offsite solutions in their portfolio, provides potential to unlock wider investment in the sector. However, we want to ensure this remains a permanent and 
growing transformation within Government and wider public sector estates 
Influene
BUILDOFFSITE will work to inform client decision making, both public and private, across multiple sectors. Through our Client Group, we will ensure their requirements, and the 
solutions that the offsite supply chain can bring, are linked together to drive optimum results for the industry. Through research, knowledge transfer, and innovative networking we will 
continue to facilitate conversations with clients that will present increased and better solutions for their projects, and more opportunities for the offsite supply chain.
BUILDOFFSITE will continue to inform clients and other key stakeholders of the benefits of the offsite sector by demonstrating evidence of good practice. Through providing guid
ance and reporting this evidence BUILDOFFSITE will help shape the future of the sector and can be used to help enable the increased adoption and success of offsite solutions and 
methodology.
We will continue our long-standing history of delivering industry beneficial research and reportage, underpinned by the collective knowledge of our Client Group and the newly 
formed Built Environment 
Demons ate evidene 
of good pra e
02
01
BUILDOFFSITE will provide insight and knowledge on the offsite sector. Through our site visits, webinar, and exhibition programme, we will ensure that all aspects of industry 
improve awareness and understanding of the key trends, information and opportunities that are shaping the sector. We will provide a voice and platform for our members and 
industry stakeholders to comment and discuss the factors that are influencing offsite and enable debate and conversation both with and for our members.
Through our renewed focus on research and industry events we will enable the development and dissemination of current and future thinking and knowledge.
Build insight 
and knowledge
Two member groups will work together to deliver the key goals set out in this document and determined, from time to time, via membership consultation. They will also react to 
construction sector changes and demands.
The Client Group will provide direction on policy and research topics.
The Built Environment Working Group (BEWG) will maximise the impact of our efforts and shape priorities for lobbying and influencing policy across the construction industry. The 
role of the BEWG is to support clients, contractors, manufacturers, and product suppliers participating in the delivery of buildings and infrastructure by providing advice to enable a 
shift to greater use of pre-manufacturing. The group will respond to differing demands of residential, social infrastructure, commercial, utilities and transport infrastructure sectors via 
separate Focus Working Groups. Activities will range from submissions to Government and Parliament to hosting events and site visits and facilitating the development of guidance 
and standards. Its terms are in annex 2 of this Manifesto.
The BEWG, with the support of the Client Group, will be key to the delivery of the goals set out in this document. Underpinning the work of these groups will be an emphasis on 
interaction, collaboration, innovation and problem-solving and we will seek to encourage this across sectors and disciplines.
Through collaboration, knowledge sharing, or the production of research and guidance, Sector Focus Groups will deliver outputs and impacts; to benefit members’ own business 
objectives, the Client Group, other BUILDOFFSITE members, and the wider offsite industry.